---
title: 'Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics'
date: 2023-02-10
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

This blogpost attempts to give a comprehensive introduction to the work described mainly in the following three papers:
‘Discovering Governing Equations from Data by Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems’ [1]
‘Data-Driven Discovery of Coordinates and Governing Equations’ [2]
‘Data-Driven Discovery of Partial Differential Equations’. [3]
The work on SINDy and related projects is still very much ongoing and each year numerous breakthroughs are made. Here I just try to highlight the concept, as well as some of the initial successes that have been achieved.


Discovering governing equations – The need for SINDy
======
 “Not only is the Universe stranger than we think, it is stranger than we can think.”
- Werner Heisenberg.

One of the main goals of science, is to describe the world in terms of theories and formulas. To discover models that capture the essence of vastly complex systems and give us the power to predict what will happen next, or how we can change it. In our pursuit for these models, the problems we tried to tackle have become increasingly harder. With the realisation that solving systems analytically is becoming more and more unfeasible, science has made a drastic migration to the computational domain ever since its power became available. 
For many of the hot topics in science today- climate science, neuroscience, ecology, finance epidemiology, etc.- data is abundant, but good models remain elusive. As the quote by Heisenberg suggests, maybe some of these systems surpass what we as humans are capable of grasping. Maybe, we need to rely on machines to help us discover models and dynamics. And what better tool to use, than machine learning?

Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics, or SINDy for short, tries to do exactly this. It builds on the observation that many natural systems governed by equations containing only a few terms (in an appropriate basis, that is) and tries to implement this. SINDy applies a combination of sparsity-promoting techniques and machine learning to nonlinear dynamical systems to discover governing equations from noisy measurement data. 
In the following, I will try to walk you through the working principles of SINDy on the basis of some of the problems they were able to solve.


You can have many headings
======

What happens now?
=====

Aren't headings cool?
------